# Too Many CPU-Cores per GPU

The alert finds jobs that are allocating too many CPU-cores per GPU. The goal is prevent the situation where there are free GPUs on a node but not enough CPU-cores to accept new jobs.

## Configuration File

Below is an example entry for `config.yaml`:

```yaml
too-many-cores-per-gpu-1:
  cluster: della
  partitions:
    - gpu
  cores_per_node: 96
  gpus_per_node: 8
  cores_per_gpu_target: 12
  cores_per_gpu_limit: 18
  email_file: "too_many_cores_per_gpu.txt"
  admin_emails:
    - admin@institution.edu
```

The parameters are explained below:

- `cluster`: Specify the cluster name as it appears in the Slurm database. One cluster name
per alert.

- `partitions`: Specify one or more Slurm partitions.

- `min_run_time`: (Optional) Minimum run time in minutes for a job to be included in the calculation. For example, if `min_run_time: 30` is used then jobs that ran for less than 30 minutes are ignored. Default: 0

- `cores_per_node`: (Required) Number of CPU-cores per node.

- `gpus_per_node`: (Required) Number of GPUs per node.

- `cores_per_gpu_target`: (Required) This should be the number of CPU-cores divided by the number of GPUs per node. For instance, for nodes with 96 cores and 8 GPUs, one should use 96/8=12.

- `cores_per_gpu_limit`: (Required) Include jobs where the number of CPU-cores per GPU is equal to or greater than this value. One may set this equal to `cores_per_gpu_target` or a value slightly larger.

- `email_file`: The text file to be used for the email message.

- `email_subject`: Subject of the email message to users.

- `include_running_jobs`: (Optional) If `True` then jobs in a state of `RUNNING` will be included in the calculation. The Prometheus server must be queried for each running job, which can be an expensive operation. Default: False

- `nodelist`: (Optional) Only apply this alert to jobs that ran on the specified nodes. See [example](../nodelist.md).

- `excluded_users`: (Optional) List of users to exclude from receiving emails. These users will still appear
in reports for system administrators when `--report` is used.

- `admin_emails`: (Optional) The emails sent to users will also be sent to these administator emails. This applies
when the `--email` option is used.

## Report

Below is an example report:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --too-many-cores-per-gpu
```

## Email

For an example see `email/too_many_cores_per_gpu.txt`:

```
```

### Tags

The following tags can be used in the email file:

- `<GREETING>`: The greeting generated by `greeting-method`.
- `<CLUSTER>`: The cluster specified for the alert (i.e., `cluster`).
- `<PARTITIONS>`: The partitions listed for the alert (i.e., `partitions`).
- `<TARGET>`: The soft limit for the number of CPU-cores per GPU (i.e., `cores_per_gpu_target`).
- `<CORES>`: Cores per node (i.e., `cores_per_node`).
- `<GPUS>`: Number of GPUs per node (i.e., `gpus_per_node`).
- `<DAYS>`: Number of days in the time window (default is 7).
- `<NUM-JOBS>`: Total number of jobs with at least one idle GPU.
- `<TABLE>`: Table of job data.
- `<JOBSTATS>`: `jobstats` command for the first JobID (`$ jobstats 12345678`).

## Usage

Send emails to offending users:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --too-many-cores-per-gpu --email
```
